docs/docs/development.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Development
---

[//]: # (Copyright Paion Data)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

The following guide is intended to help developers who maintain or want to make changes to the [Astraios].

Overview
--------

[Astraios] delegates JPA capabilities to [Elide] and configures Elide through 2 required Elide
[bindings][what is binding]:

1. **[Elide][Elide instance class]**
2. **[ElideSettings][ElideSettings instance class]** with 2 extra sub-bindings:

   - **EntityDictionary**
   - **DataStore**

The binding is referencing [Elide Standalone] in the following way:

:::danger

Although the Jersey binder wraps HK2 binder, we
[must pick the _Jersey binder_ for binding Elide resources](https://github.com/paion-data/astraios/pull/10/files#diff-7633fbf494dcb17a51964f179a341b02c328a7214fa3c2c01ba28b1f4cc4dc4aR39-R40),
otherwise, dependency injection will flaky and not right.

:::

![Error loading resource-binding.png](img/resource-binding.png)

Running Tests
-------------

The IT tests will run against an [example model] so make sure the following environment variable is set to point to this
model:

```bash
export TEST_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=com.qubitpi.ws.jersey.template.models
```

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
Next, download the [data model](elide/data-model) to _CLASSPATH_ by setting up the following `~/.m2/settings.xml`
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

:::tip

[Astraios] ships with an example `settings.xml` which contains exactly the same settings as the one below. As an
alternative, we could simply run

```bash
cd astraios
cp settings.xml.example ~/.m2/settings.xml
```

:::

```xml
<settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                      http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">

    <profiles>
        <profile>
            <id>astraios-models</id>
            <properties>
                <model.package.jar.group.id>com.qubitpi</model.package.jar.group.id>
                <model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                   jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models
                </model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                <model.package.jar.version>1.0.0</model.package.jar.version>
            </properties>
        </profile>
    </profiles>

    <activeProfiles>
        <activeProfile>astraios-models</activeProfile>
    </activeProfiles>
</settings>
```

Then execute the following commands to run both unit and integration tests:

```bash
mvn clean verify
```

For IT tests, we use [Testcontainers] instead of [jcabi-mysql] because the latter is hard to configure and debug and
[Testcontainers] support more types of db, such as mongo

Packaging
---------

```bash
mvn clean package
```

A [WAR file](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WAR_(file_format)) named **astraios-1.0-SNAPSHOT.war** will
be generated under _target_ directory for running in Jetty.

Running Webservice in Docker Compose
------------------------------------

### Step 1: Defining Data Models

To inject [Elide model package](https://github.com/yahoo/elide/tree/master/elide-standalone#create-models), simply put
the models in a separate JAR and include it as a dependency in POM. If the model package is internal and cannot be
visible publicly, either make the astraios project private or public with model package dependency info
[injected via settings.xml](https://maven.apache.org/examples/injecting-properties-via-settings.html), for example:

```xml
<project>
    ...

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>${model.package.jar.group.id}</groupId>
            <artifactId>${model.package.jar.artifact.id}</artifactId>
            <version>${model.package.jar.version}</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>

    ...
</project>
```

with a corresponding `~/.m2/settings.xml`:

```xml
<settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                      http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">

    <profiles>
        <profile>
            <id>astraios-data-models-properties</id>
            <properties>
                <model.package.jar.group.id>com.mycompnay</model.package.jar.group.id>
                <model.package.jar.artifact.id>my-model-package</model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                <model.package.jar.version>1.0.7</model.package.jar.version>
            </properties>
        </profile>
    </profiles>


    <activeProfiles>
        <activeProfile>astraios-data-models-properties</activeProfile>
    </activeProfiles>

    <servers>
        ...
    </servers>
</settings>
```

Lastly, if IntelliJ IDE is used for developing [Astraios], please make sure to let IDE pick up the `~/.m2/settings.xml` by
unchecking the _Use settings from .mvn/maven.config_:

![Error loading load-m2-settings.png](img/load-m2-settings.png)

### Step 2: Spinning Up Docker Compose

Astraios can run in [Docker Compose] for the following purposes

1. Decoupling frontend and backend developments
2. Making it easy to run E2E testing of Astraios-backed application in CI/CD

:::caution

Docker Compose designed here is intended for local development and testing purposes ONLY! _It is strongly discouraged
to run this Docker Compose in production!_

:::

![Error Loading docker-compose.png](img/docker-compose.png)

Simply run:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:paion-data/astraios.git
cd astraios
mvn clean package
MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=$ASTRAIOS_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME docker compose up --build --force-recreate
```

where the value of `$ASTRAIOS_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME` variable is the package in config JAR that contains all
[elide models](https://elide.io/pages/guide/v7/02-data-model.html). It can be set, for example, at command line with:

```bash
export $ASTRAIOS_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=com.mycompany.models
```

The variable will be [passed](https://stackoverflow.com/a/58900415) into Docker Compose file.

:::tip

The MySQL database, if running correctly, can be accessed from host machine via

```bash
mysql -h localhost -P 3306 -D elide --protocol=tcp -u root -proot
```

Note all data is in `elide` database which we have specified to use in the command above.

:::

### Troubleshooting

#### Database Does Not Have My Model Packages's Bean Table

_If tests is running in IntelliJ IDE_, make sure the model package JAR it is in IDE's **External Libraries**

Otherwise, the dependency injection didn't find a bean class under the package specified by
[$TEST_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME](#step-1-defining-data-models)

### Entity Missing Default Constructor

```bash
[main] INFO  o.h.m.i.EntityInstantiatorPojoStandard - HHH000182: No default (no-argument) constructor for
class: ... (class must be instantiated by Interceptor)
```

Simply add a no-args constructor to the bean class.

### How to Exclude GraphQL Feature

To optionally disable GraphQL endpoints, exclude corresponding dependencies in POM. For example:

```xml
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
            <artifactId>elide-core</artifactId>
            <version>7.0.0-pr6</version>
            <exclusions>
                <exclusion>
                    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
                    <artifactId>elide-graphql</artifactId>
                </exclusion>
            </exclusions>
        </dependency>
```

Querying Webservice
-------------------

### GraphQL Queries through GraphiQL

#### Install GraphiQL (on Mac)

via [Homebrew](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/graphiql)

```bash
brew install --cask graphiql
```

#### Quering GraphQL Endpoint

Let's crete a book:

```graphql
mutation {
  book(op: UPSERT, data:{title: "Pride & Prejudice"}) {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
      }
    }
  }
}
```

![Error loading graphiql-mutation-example.png](img/graphiql-mutation-example.png)

We can create few more books, sort and paginate them with:

```graphql
{
  book(sort: "-id", first: "1", after: "0") {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
      }
    }
    pageInfo {
      totalRecords
      startCursor
      endCursor
      hasNextPage
    }
  }
}
```

### TypeScript/JavaScript Axios

:::caution

Note that any serialization of TS/JS object (`someObject`) should be done with
`JSON.stringify(someObject).replace(/"/g, '\\"')`, otherwise the GraphQL query won't be parsed properly by webservice.

:::

```typescript
import axios from "axios";

const JERSEY_WEBSERVICE_TEMPLATE_GRAPHQL_API_ENDPOINT = "https://myservice.com/v1/data";

export class Client {
  public saveOrUpdate(book: Book, userId: string, accessToken: string): Promise<any> {
    const someJsonField = JSON.stringify({ field1: book.field1, field2: book.field2 }).replace(/"/g, '\\"');

    return this.postGraphQLQuery(
      `
      mutation saveGraph {
        graph(op: UPSERT, data: {
          id: "${book.id}"
          title: "${book.title}"
          authorId: "${book.authorId}"
          jsonField: "${someJsonField}"
        }) {
          edges {
            node {
              id
              title
              author
            }
          }
        }
      }
      `,
      accessToken
    );
  }

  public getBooksByAuthorId(authorId: string, accessToken: string) {
    return this.postGraphQLQuery(
      `
      query getBooksByAuthorId {
        book(filter:"authorId==${authorId}") {
          edges {
            node {
              id
              title
            }
          }
        }
      }
      `,
      accessToken
    );
  }

  private postGraphQLQuery(query: string, accessToken: string): Promise<any> {
    return axios
      .post(JERSEY_WEBSERVICE_TEMPLATE_GRAPHQL_API_ENDPOINT, { query: query }, this.getHeaders(accessToken))
      .then((response) => {
        return response;
      });
  }

  private getHeaders(token: string) {
    return {
      headers: {
        Accept: "application/json",
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
        Authorization: "Bearer " + token,
      },
    };
  }
}
```

![Error loading graphiql-query-example.png](img/graphiql-query-example.png)

[Astraios]: https://paion-data.github.io/astraios/

[Elide]: https://elide.io/
[Elide instance class]: https://github.com/yahoo/elide/blob/master/elide-core/src/main/java/com/yahoo/elide/Elide.java
[Elide Standalone]: https://github.com/yahoo/elide/tree/master/elide-standalone
[ElideSettings instance class]: https://github.com/yahoo/elide/blob/master/elide-core/src/main/java/com/yahoo/elide/ElideSettings.java
[example model]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models/blob/master/src/main/java/com/qubitpi/ws/jersey/template/models/Book.java

[jcabi-mysql]: https://mysql.jcabi.com/

[Testcontainers]: https://qubitpi.github.io/testcontainers-java/

[what is binding]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey/ioc.html

Commit message:

OAuth is disabled by default but can be overridden to enable in Docker Compose

docs/docs/development.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Development
---

[//]: # (Copyright Paion Data)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

The following guide is intended to help developers who maintain or want to make changes to the [Astraios].

Overview
--------

[Astraios] delegates JPA capabilities to [Elide] and configures Elide through 2 required Elide
[bindings][what is binding]:

1. **[Elide][Elide instance class]**
2. **[ElideSettings][ElideSettings instance class]** with 2 extra sub-bindings:

   - **EntityDictionary**
   - **DataStore**

The binding is referencing [Elide Standalone] in the following way:

:::danger

Although the Jersey binder wraps HK2 binder, we
[must pick the _Jersey binder_ for binding Elide resources](https://github.com/paion-data/astraios/pull/10/files#diff-7633fbf494dcb17a51964f179a341b02c328a7214fa3c2c01ba28b1f4cc4dc4aR39-R40),
otherwise, dependency injection will flaky and not right.

:::

![Error loading resource-binding.png](img/resource-binding.png)

Running Tests
-------------

The IT tests will run against an [example model] so make sure the following environment variable is set to point to this
model:

```bash
export TEST_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=com.qubitpi.ws.jersey.template.models
```

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
Next, download the [data model](elide/data-model) to _CLASSPATH_ by setting up the following `~/.m2/settings.xml`
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

:::tip

[Astraios] ships with an example `settings.xml` which contains exactly the same settings as the one below. As an
alternative, we could simply run

```bash
cd astraios
cp settings.xml.example ~/.m2/settings.xml
```

:::

```xml
<settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                      http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">

    <profiles>
        <profile>
            <id>astraios-models</id>
            <properties>
                <model.package.jar.group.id>com.qubitpi</model.package.jar.group.id>
                <model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                   jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models
                </model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                <model.package.jar.version>1.0.0</model.package.jar.version>
            </properties>
        </profile>
    </profiles>

    <activeProfiles>
        <activeProfile>astraios-models</activeProfile>
    </activeProfiles>
</settings>
```

Then execute the following commands to run both unit and integration tests:

```bash
mvn clean verify
```

For IT tests, we use [Testcontainers] instead of [jcabi-mysql] because the latter is hard to configure and debug and
[Testcontainers] support more types of db, such as mongo

Packaging
---------

```bash
mvn clean package
```

A [WAR file](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WAR_(file_format)) named **astraios-1.0-SNAPSHOT.war** will
be generated under _target_ directory for running in Jetty.

Running Webservice in Docker Compose
------------------------------------

Astraios can run in [Docker Compose] for the following purposes

1. Decoupling frontend and backend developments
2. Making it easy to run E2E testing of Astraios-backed application in CI/CD

:::caution

Docker Compose designed here is intended for local development and testing purposes ONLY! _It is strongly discouraged
to run this Docker Compose in production!_

:::

![Error Loading docker-compose.png](img/docker-compose.png)

### Step 1: Defining Data Models

To inject [Elide model package](https://github.com/yahoo/elide/tree/master/elide-standalone#create-models), simply put
the models in a separate JAR and include it as a dependency in POM. If the model package is internal and cannot be
visible publicly, either make the astraios project private or public with model package dependency info
[injected via settings.xml](https://maven.apache.org/examples/injecting-properties-via-settings.html), for example:

```xml
<project>
    ...

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>${model.package.jar.group.id}</groupId>
            <artifactId>${model.package.jar.artifact.id}</artifactId>
            <version>${model.package.jar.version}</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>

    ...
</project>
```

with a corresponding `~/.m2/settings.xml`:

```xml
<settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                      http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">

    <profiles>
        <profile>
            <id>astraios-data-models-properties</id>
            <properties>
                <model.package.jar.group.id>com.mycompnay</model.package.jar.group.id>
                <model.package.jar.artifact.id>my-model-package</model.package.jar.artifact.id>
                <model.package.jar.version>1.0.7</model.package.jar.version>
            </properties>
        </profile>
    </profiles>


    <activeProfiles>
        <activeProfile>astraios-data-models-properties</activeProfile>
    </activeProfiles>

    <servers>
        ...
    </servers>
</settings>
```

Lastly, if IntelliJ IDE is used for developing [Astraios], please make sure to let IDE pick up the `~/.m2/settings.xml`
by unchecking the _Use settings from .mvn/maven.config_:

![Error loading load-m2-settings.png](img/load-m2-settings.png)

### Step 2: Spinning Up Docker Compose

Simply run:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:paion-data/astraios.git
cd astraios
mvn clean package
MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=$ASTRAIOS_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME docker compose up --build --force-recreate
```

where the value of `$ASTRAIOS_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME` variable is the package in config JAR that contains all
[elide models](https://elide.io/pages/guide/v7/02-data-model.html). It can be set, for example, at command line with:

```bash
export $ASTRAIOS_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME=com.mycompany.models
```

The variable will be [passed](https://stackoverflow.com/a/58900415) into Docker Compose file.

:::tip

Although not needed as in development, one can turn on OAuth feature in Docker Compose (for example in acceptance tests)
by

```bash
export $OAUTH_ENABLED=com.mycompany.models
```

Note that OAuth feature is disabled by default in Docker Compose (i.e. OAUTH_ENABLED=false)

:::

:::tip

The MySQL database, if running correctly, can be accessed from host machine via

```bash
mysql -h localhost -P 3306 -D elide --protocol=tcp -u root -proot
```

Note all data is in `elide` database which we have specified to use in the command above.

:::

### Troubleshooting

#### Database Does Not Have My Model Packages's Bean Table

_If tests is running in IntelliJ IDE_, make sure the model package JAR it is in IDE's **External Libraries**

Otherwise, the dependency injection didn't find a bean class under the package specified by
[$TEST_MODEL_PACKAGE_NAME](#step-1-defining-data-models)

### Entity Missing Default Constructor

```bash
[main] INFO  o.h.m.i.EntityInstantiatorPojoStandard - HHH000182: No default (no-argument) constructor for
class: ... (class must be instantiated by Interceptor)
```

Simply add a no-args constructor to the bean class.

### How to Exclude GraphQL Feature

To optionally disable GraphQL endpoints, exclude corresponding dependencies in POM. For example:

```xml
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
            <artifactId>elide-core</artifactId>
            <version>7.0.0-pr6</version>
            <exclusions>
                <exclusion>
                    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
                    <artifactId>elide-graphql</artifactId>
                </exclusion>
            </exclusions>
        </dependency>
```

Querying Webservice
-------------------

### GraphQL Queries through GraphiQL

#### Install GraphiQL (on Mac)

via [Homebrew](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/graphiql)

```bash
brew install --cask graphiql
```

#### Quering GraphQL Endpoint

Let's crete a book:

```graphql
mutation {
  book(op: UPSERT, data:{title: "Pride & Prejudice"}) {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
      }
    }
  }
}
```

![Error loading graphiql-mutation-example.png](img/graphiql-mutation-example.png)

We can create few more books, sort and paginate them with:

```graphql
{
  book(sort: "-id", first: "1", after: "0") {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
      }
    }
    pageInfo {
      totalRecords
      startCursor
      endCursor
      hasNextPage
    }
  }
}
```

### TypeScript/JavaScript Axios

:::caution

Note that any serialization of TS/JS object (`someObject`) should be done with
`JSON.stringify(someObject).replace(/"/g, '\\"')`, otherwise the GraphQL query won't be parsed properly by webservice.

:::

```typescript
import axios from "axios";

const JERSEY_WEBSERVICE_TEMPLATE_GRAPHQL_API_ENDPOINT = "https://myservice.com/v1/data";

export class Client {
  public saveOrUpdate(book: Book, userId: string, accessToken: string): Promise<any> {
    const someJsonField = JSON.stringify({ field1: book.field1, field2: book.field2 }).replace(/"/g, '\\"');

    return this.postGraphQLQuery(
      `
      mutation saveGraph {
        graph(op: UPSERT, data: {
          id: "${book.id}"
          title: "${book.title}"
          authorId: "${book.authorId}"
          jsonField: "${someJsonField}"
        }) {
          edges {
            node {
              id
              title
              author
            }
          }
        }
      }
      `,
      accessToken
    );
  }

  public getBooksByAuthorId(authorId: string, accessToken: string) {
    return this.postGraphQLQuery(
      `
      query getBooksByAuthorId {
        book(filter:"authorId==${authorId}") {
          edges {
            node {
              id
              title
            }
          }
        }
      }
      `,
      accessToken
    );
  }

  private postGraphQLQuery(query: string, accessToken: string): Promise<any> {
    return axios
      .post(JERSEY_WEBSERVICE_TEMPLATE_GRAPHQL_API_ENDPOINT, { query: query }, this.getHeaders(accessToken))
      .then((response) => {
        return response;
      });
  }

  private getHeaders(token: string) {
    return {
      headers: {
        Accept: "application/json",
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
        Authorization: "Bearer " + token,
      },
    };
  }
}
```

![Error loading graphiql-query-example.png](img/graphiql-query-example.png)

[Astraios]: https://paion-data.github.io/astraios/

[Elide]: https://elide.io/
[Elide instance class]: https://github.com/yahoo/elide/blob/master/elide-core/src/main/java/com/yahoo/elide/Elide.java
[Elide Standalone]: https://github.com/yahoo/elide/tree/master/elide-standalone
[ElideSettings instance class]: https://github.com/yahoo/elide/blob/master/elide-core/src/main/java/com/yahoo/elide/ElideSettings.java
[example model]: https://github.com/QubitPi/jersey-webservice-template-jpa-data-models/blob/master/src/main/java/com/qubitpi/ws/jersey/template/models/Book.java

[jcabi-mysql]: https://mysql.jcabi.com/

[Testcontainers]: https://qubitpi.github.io/testcontainers-java/

[what is binding]: https://qubitpi.github.io/jersey/ioc.html
