docs/docs/elide/datastores.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Data Stores
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

A data store is responsible for:

1. Reading and writing entity models to/from a persistence layer.
2. Providing transactions that make all persistence operations atomic in a single request.
3. Implementing filtering, sorting, and pagination.
4. Declaring the entities it manages persistence for.

If a data store is unable to fully implement filtering, sorting, or pagination, it can instead rely on the Elide
framework to perform these functions in memory.  By default, however, Elide pushes these responsibilities to the store.

Included Stores
---------------

Elide comes bundled with a number of data stores:

1. Hashmap Data Store - Data is persisted in a hash table on the JVM heap.
2. JPA Data Store - A data store that can map operations on a data model to an underlying relational database (ORM) or
   nosql persistence layer (OGM). The JPA Data Store can work with any JPA provider.
3. Multiplex Data Store - A multiplex store that delegates persistence to different underlying stores depending on the
   data model.
4. Noop Data Store - A store which does nothing, allowing business logic in computed attributes and life cycle hooks to
   entirely implement CRUD operations on the model.
5. [Search Data Store](https://github.com/yahoo/elide/tree/master/elide-datastore/elide-datastore-search) - A store
   which provides full text search on text fields while delegating other requests to another provided store.
6. [Aggregation Data Store](analytics) - A store which provides computation of groupable measures (similar to SQL group
   by). The aggregation store has custom annotations that map an Elide model to native SQL queries against a JDBC
   database.

The Hashmap Data Store is included as part of `elide-core` while other data stores can be included through the
following artifact dependencies:

### JPA Data Store

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
    <artifactId>elide-datastore-jpa</artifactId>
    <version>${elide.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

### Multiplex Data Store

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
    <artifactId>elide-datastore-multiplex</artifactId>
    <version>${elide.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

### Noop Data Store

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
    <artifactId>elide-datastore-noop</artifactId>
    <version>${elide.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

### Search Data Store

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
    <artifactId>elide-datastore-search</artifactId>
    <version>${elide.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

### Aggregation Data Store

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
    <artifactId>elide-datastore-aggregation</artifactId>
    <version>${elide.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

Overriding the Store
--------------------

To change the store, one of two possible functions should be overridden depending on whether the `AggregationDataStore`
is enabled:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="AggregationDataStore-disabled" label="AggregationDataStore disabled" default>
    ```java
    /**
     * Initializes the Elide {@link DataStore} service with the specified {@link EntityManagerFactory}.
     *
     * @param entityManagerFactory  An object used to initialize JPA
     *
     * @return a new instance
     */
    @NotNull
    private DataStore buildDataStore(@NotNull final EntityManagerFactory entityManagerFactory) {
        return new JpaDataStore(
                entityManagerFactory::createEntityManager,
                em -> new NonJtaTransaction(em, TXCANCEL),
                entityManagerFactory::getMetamodel
        );
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="AggregationDataStore-enabled" label="AggregationDataStore enabled">
    ```java
    /**
     * Gets the DataStore for Elide.
     *
     * @param metaDataStore MetaDataStore object.
     * @param aggregationDataStore AggregationDataStore object.
     * @param entityManagerFactory EntityManagerFactory object.
     * @return DataStore object initialized.
     */
    @Override
    public DataStore getDataStore(MetaDataStore metaDataStore, AggregationDataStore aggregationDataStore,
            EntityManagerFactory entityManagerFactory) {
        DataStore jpaDataStore = new JpaDataStore(
                () -> { return entityManagerFactory.createEntityManager(); },
                (em) -> { return new NonJtaTransaction(em, ElideStandaloneSettings.TXCANCEL); });

        DataStore dataStore = new MultiplexManager(jpaDataStore, metaDataStore, aggregationDataStore);

        return dataStore;
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Custom Stores
-------------

Custom stores can be written by implementing the `DataStore` and `DataStoreTransaction` interfaces.

### Enabling In-Memory Filtering, Sorting, or Pagination

If a Data Store is unable to fully implement sorting, filtering, or pagination, the Elide framework can perform
these functions in-memory instead.

The Data Store Transaction can inform Elide of its capabilities (or lack thereof) by returning a `DataStoreIterable` for
any collection loaded:

```java
/**
 * Returns data loaded from a DataStore.   Wraps an iterable but also communicates to Elide
 * if the framework needs to filter, sort, or paginate the iterable in memory before returning to the client.
 * @param <T> The type being iterated over.
 */
public interface DataStoreIterable<T> extends Iterable<T> {

    /**
     * Returns the underlying iterable.
     * @return The underlying iterable.
     */
    Iterable<T> getWrappedIterable();


    /**
     * Whether the iterable should be filtered in memory.
     * @return true if the iterable needs sorting in memory.  false otherwise.
     */
    default boolean needsInMemoryFilter() {
        return false;
    }

    /**
     * Whether the iterable should be sorted in memory.
     * @return true if the iterable needs sorting in memory.  false otherwise.
     */
    default boolean needsInMemorySort() {
        return false;
    }

    /**
     * Whether the iterable should be paginated in memory.
     * @return true if the iterable needs pagination in memory.  false otherwise.
     */
    default boolean needsInMemoryPagination() {
        return false;
    }
}

```

Multiple Stores
---------------

A common pattern in Elide is the need to support multiple data stores. Typically, one data store manages most models,
but some models may require a different persistence backend or have other needs to specialize the behavior of the store.

The Multiplex Data Store (`MultiplexManager`) in Elide manages multiple stores - delegating calls to the appropriate
store which is responsible for a particular model. By default it will apply compensating transactions to undo failures
if multiple stores are involved in the multiplex transaction and an error occurs after transactions to some of the
stores were already committed.

To set up the Multiplex Data Store, override the `getDataStore` function:

```java
/**
 * Gets the DataStore for elide when aggregation store is disabled.
 * @param entityManagerFactory EntityManagerFactory object.
 * @return DataStore object initialized.
 */
@Override
public DataStore getDataStore(EntityManagerFactory entityManagerFactory) {
    //Store 1 manages Book, Author, and Publisher
    DataStore store1 = new JpaDataStore(
            () -> { return entityManagerFactory.createEntityManager(); },
            (em) -> { return new NonJtaTransaction(em, ElideStandaloneSettings.TXCANCEL); },
            Book.class, Author.class, Publisher.class
    );

    //Store 2 is a custom store that manages Manufacturer
    DataStore store2 = new MyCustomDataStore(...);

    //Create the new multiplex store...
    return new MultiplexManager(store1, store2);
}
```

Commit message:

Centralize AMI test into hashicorp-aws & Enhance product page (#74)
* Enhance product page

* Add Algolia search

* Expose via official astraio.io URL

* Update theme main color

* Enhance light/dark theme experience

* Centralize AMI test into hashicorp-aws

* Add copyright headers

* Self-review

docs/docs/elide/datastores.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Data Stores
---

[//]: # (Copyright Paion Data)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

A data store is responsible for:

1. Reading and writing entity models to/from a persistence layer.
2. Providing transactions that make all persistence operations atomic in a single request.
3. Implementing filtering, sorting, and pagination.
4. Declaring the entities it manages persistence for.

If a data store is unable to fully implement filtering, sorting, or pagination, it can instead rely on the Elide
framework to perform these functions in memory.  By default, however, Elide pushes these responsibilities to the store.

Included Stores
---------------

Elide comes bundled with a number of data stores:

1. Hashmap Data Store - Data is persisted in a hash table on the JVM heap.
2. JPA Data Store - A data store that can map operations on a data model to an underlying relational database (ORM) or
   nosql persistence layer (OGM). The JPA Data Store can work with any JPA provider.
3. Multiplex Data Store - A multiplex store that delegates persistence to different underlying stores depending on the
   data model.
4. Noop Data Store - A store which does nothing, allowing business logic in computed attributes and life cycle hooks to
   entirely implement CRUD operations on the model.
5. [Search Data Store](https://github.com/yahoo/elide/tree/master/elide-datastore/elide-datastore-search) - A store
   which provides full text search on text fields while delegating other requests to another provided store.
6. [Aggregation Data Store](analytics) - A store which provides computation of groupable measures (similar to SQL group
   by). The aggregation store has custom annotations that map an Elide model to native SQL queries against a JDBC
   database.

The Hashmap Data Store is included as part of `elide-core` while other data stores can be included through the
following artifact dependencies:

### JPA Data Store

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
    <artifactId>elide-datastore-jpa</artifactId>
    <version>${elide.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

### Multiplex Data Store

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
    <artifactId>elide-datastore-multiplex</artifactId>
    <version>${elide.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

### Noop Data Store

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
    <artifactId>elide-datastore-noop</artifactId>
    <version>${elide.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

### Search Data Store

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
    <artifactId>elide-datastore-search</artifactId>
    <version>${elide.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

### Aggregation Data Store

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.yahoo.elide</groupId>
    <artifactId>elide-datastore-aggregation</artifactId>
    <version>${elide.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

Overriding the Store
--------------------

To change the store, one of two possible functions should be overridden depending on whether the `AggregationDataStore`
is enabled:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="AggregationDataStore-disabled" label="AggregationDataStore disabled" default>
    ```java
    /**
     * Initializes the Elide {@link DataStore} service with the specified {@link EntityManagerFactory}.
     *
     * @param entityManagerFactory  An object used to initialize JPA
     *
     * @return a new instance
     */
    @NotNull
    private DataStore buildDataStore(@NotNull final EntityManagerFactory entityManagerFactory) {
        return new JpaDataStore(
                entityManagerFactory::createEntityManager,
                em -> new NonJtaTransaction(em, TXCANCEL),
                entityManagerFactory::getMetamodel
        );
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="AggregationDataStore-enabled" label="AggregationDataStore enabled">
    ```java
    /**
     * Gets the DataStore for Elide.
     *
     * @param metaDataStore MetaDataStore object.
     * @param aggregationDataStore AggregationDataStore object.
     * @param entityManagerFactory EntityManagerFactory object.
     * @return DataStore object initialized.
     */
    @Override
    public DataStore getDataStore(MetaDataStore metaDataStore, AggregationDataStore aggregationDataStore,
            EntityManagerFactory entityManagerFactory) {
        DataStore jpaDataStore = new JpaDataStore(
                () -> { return entityManagerFactory.createEntityManager(); },
                (em) -> { return new NonJtaTransaction(em, ElideStandaloneSettings.TXCANCEL); });

        DataStore dataStore = new MultiplexManager(jpaDataStore, metaDataStore, aggregationDataStore);

        return dataStore;
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Custom Stores
-------------

Custom stores can be written by implementing the `DataStore` and `DataStoreTransaction` interfaces.

### Enabling In-Memory Filtering, Sorting, or Pagination

If a Data Store is unable to fully implement sorting, filtering, or pagination, the Elide framework can perform
these functions in-memory instead.

The Data Store Transaction can inform Elide of its capabilities (or lack thereof) by returning a `DataStoreIterable` for
any collection loaded:

```java
/**
 * Returns data loaded from a DataStore.   Wraps an iterable but also communicates to Elide
 * if the framework needs to filter, sort, or paginate the iterable in memory before returning to the client.
 * @param <T> The type being iterated over.
 */
public interface DataStoreIterable<T> extends Iterable<T> {

    /**
     * Returns the underlying iterable.
     * @return The underlying iterable.
     */
    Iterable<T> getWrappedIterable();


    /**
     * Whether the iterable should be filtered in memory.
     * @return true if the iterable needs sorting in memory.  false otherwise.
     */
    default boolean needsInMemoryFilter() {
        return false;
    }

    /**
     * Whether the iterable should be sorted in memory.
     * @return true if the iterable needs sorting in memory.  false otherwise.
     */
    default boolean needsInMemorySort() {
        return false;
    }

    /**
     * Whether the iterable should be paginated in memory.
     * @return true if the iterable needs pagination in memory.  false otherwise.
     */
    default boolean needsInMemoryPagination() {
        return false;
    }
}

```

Multiple Stores
---------------

A common pattern in Elide is the need to support multiple data stores. Typically, one data store manages most models,
but some models may require a different persistence backend or have other needs to specialize the behavior of the store.

The Multiplex Data Store (`MultiplexManager`) in Elide manages multiple stores - delegating calls to the appropriate
store which is responsible for a particular model. By default it will apply compensating transactions to undo failures
if multiple stores are involved in the multiplex transaction and an error occurs after transactions to some of the
stores were already committed.

To set up the Multiplex Data Store, override the `getDataStore` function:

```java
/**
 * Gets the DataStore for elide when aggregation store is disabled.
 * @param entityManagerFactory EntityManagerFactory object.
 * @return DataStore object initialized.
 */
@Override
public DataStore getDataStore(EntityManagerFactory entityManagerFactory) {
    //Store 1 manages Book, Author, and Publisher
    DataStore store1 = new JpaDataStore(
            () -> { return entityManagerFactory.createEntityManager(); },
            (em) -> { return new NonJtaTransaction(em, ElideStandaloneSettings.TXCANCEL); },
            Book.class, Author.class, Publisher.class
    );

    //Store 2 is a custom store that manages Manufacturer
    DataStore store2 = new MyCustomDataStore(...);

    //Create the new multiplex store...
    return new MultiplexManager(store1, store2);
}
```
