docs/docs/elide/performance.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 9
title: Performance
---

N+1 Problem
-----------

### Overview

The N+1 problem is a performance issue where an ORM issues a large number of database queries to fetch a parent/child
relationship. The ORM issues a single query to hydrate the parent and then _N_ queries to hydrate the children.

Most ORMs solve this problem by providing a number of different fetching strategies that are enabled when a proxy object
or collection is hydrated. These strategies fall into one of two categories:

1. A join is used to fetch both the parent and the children in a single query. The ORM populates its session cache with
   all entities fetched in the join. Joining works well for fetching singular relationships. It is important to note
   that a singular join that fetches an entire subgraph (spanning multiple relationships) is impractical and would break
   row based pagination (offset & limit). Furthermore, large joins put considerable memory stress on the ORM server
   because of the width of the records.
2. Instead of a single query per element of a collection, the number of queries is reduced by fetching multiple children
   in fewer queries.

These strategies may or not be available to the developer depending on how the ORM is leveraged. If the developer
interacts with a proxy object directly, all fetch strategies are available. However, the SQL queries generated from
proxy objects cannot be customized with additional filters, sorting, or pagination.

Alternatively, the developer can have complete control over the query by writing JPQL or Criteria queries. However, only
join fetching is available through these APIs.

### Solution

Because Elide has to work well under a wide variety of circumstances, it has adopted a hybrid solution for ORM based
data stores.

Whenever Elide traverses a to-one relationship, it returns the ORM proxy object directly. In most cases, these
relationships should already exist inside the session and result in no extra database queries.

Whenever Elide traverses a to-many relationship, Elide determines if it is loading a single collection (1 query) or a
collection of collections (N+1 queries). In the latter case, it returns the ORM proxy directly and performs all
filtering, sorting, and pagination in memory. Otherwise, it constructs a custom JPQL query that will fetch the
collection - joining with all the client requested to-one relationships to prefetch them.

In general, it is recommended to configure the ORM with batch fetching so the ORM will efficiently hydrate proxy
collections (batch fetching turns N queries into (N / batch size) queries).

Security Checks
---------------

Elide provides different flavors of security checks for performance reasons. In general, it is expensive to execute
servers side functions for every entity row hydrated from the database. Because Elide is handling the results of each
query in a single thread, the CPU cost of these checks can add extra latency to our queries.

To work around this, Elide provides two different kinds of security checks:

1. *User Checks* - User checks are evaluated once per request rather than per entity row.
2. *Filter Expression Checks* - Filter Expression Checks generate filter expressions that are pushed to the persistence
   layer and executed in the database.

For data reads from the database, it is recommended to use User Checks and Filter Expression Checks wherever possible.

ORM-isms
--------

Beware to-one relationships where the entity doesn't own the relationship (`mappedBy` is specified) _and_ `optional` is
set to true. The ORM must **ALWAYS** fetch these relationships when hydrating a proxy (leading to N+1 queries depending
on how the ORM is configured).  The ORM has no way of knowing if the relationship is null or non-null without issuing
another database query.

Database-isms
-------------

It is highly recommended to collocate Elide servers and the database in the same data center or region to reduce the
latency of database queries from Elide.

It is also recommended to segregate Elide read only transactions (data fetches) to run against a read-only replica of
the database for optimal read performance.

Text Search
-----------

By default, text search (INFIX operator) is accomplished in Elide through a JPQL query similar to:

```sql
SELECT id, field1, field2, ... FROM table WHERE field1 like CONCAT('%', searchTerm, '%')
```

For case insensitive searches, Elide will add a lower case function to both the search field and the search value.

There are a number of limitations to this approach:

1. If the database is using a b-tree index to index the search column, a preceding wildcard ('%') will disable the use
   of the index. The query will result in a full table scan.
2. Databases have limited support for functional indices. Use of lower or upper case functions may also disable the use
   of an index.

Elide provides two capabilities to work around these issues for large tables that require text search:

1. Elide supports the [ability to override the JPQL fragment](#jpql-fragment-override) that is generated for any
   operator on any field in any entity model. This makes it possible to disable the use of lower/upper case functions on
   a database column if the database column is already case insensitive. It is also possible to use custom SQL dialects
   to leverage full text index support (where available).
2. Elide supports a
   [Text Search Data Store](https://github.com/yahoo/elide/tree/master/elide-datastore/elide-datastore-search) that can
   wrap another ORM data store. Whenever possible, the text search data store can delegate queries to a local Lucene
   index or a Elasticsearch cluster rather than the default data store.

### JPQL Fragment Override

To override the JPQL fragment Elide generates for a filter operator, we must define a JPQL Predicate Generator:

```java
@FunctionalInterface
public interface JPQLPredicateGenerator {

    /**
     * Generate a JPQL fragment for a particular filter operator.
     *
     * @param predicate The filter predicate
     * @param aliasGenerator Given a path, returns a JPQL alias for that path.
     *
     * @return A JPQL fragment.
     */
    String generate(FilterPredicate predicate, Function<Path, String> aliasGenerator);
}
```

And then register it with Elide for the filter operator we want to modify. This can either be done globally:

```java
FilterTranslator.registerJPQLGenerator(
        Operator.NOTNULL,
        (predicate, aliasGenerator) -> {
            return String.format("%s IS NOT NULL", aliasGenerator.apply(predicate.getPath()));
        }
);
```

Or the override can be registered for a specific model attribute:

```java
FilterTranslator.registerJPQLGenerator(
        Operator.NOTNULL,
        Book.class,
        "title",
        (predicate, aliasGenerator) -> {
            return String.format("%s IS NOT NULL", aliasGenerator.apply(predicate.getPath()));
        }
);
```

Bespoke Field Sets
------------------

By default JSON-API fetches every relationship in an entity unless a client restricts what it asks for through sparse
fields. These relationship fetches result in extra database queries. It is recommended to either use GraphQL or educate
clients to use sparse fields in JSON-API whenever possible.

AggregationDataStore Cache
--------------------------

AggregationDataStore supports caching QueryEngine results. By default, a simple in-memory Caffeine-based cache is
configured, with a size limit of 1024 entries, but we can provide our own implementation.

For the cache to apply to a query, there are two requirements:

1. The `AggregationDataStore` must be supplied with a cache implementation.
2. The query being executed doesn't have `bypassingCache` set.

### Query Versions

The `AggregationDataStore` can prepend a table/data version to each cache entry key. This will prevent the cache from
returning stale data. Elide supports the `VersionQuery` annotation which specifies a SQL query to run that returns the
version for a particular table:

```java
@Include
@FromTable(name = "stats")
@VersionQuery(sql = "SELECT COUNT(*) FROM stats")
public class Stats {
    // fields
}
```

Returning a row count should work for tables that are insert-only. In most cases, a more sophisticated query will be
needed, such as one that returns a table modification timestamp.

Commit message:

Centralize AMI test into hashicorp-aws & Enhance product page (#74)
* Enhance product page

* Add Algolia search

* Expose via official astraio.io URL

* Update theme main color

* Enhance light/dark theme experience

* Centralize AMI test into hashicorp-aws

* Add copyright headers

* Self-review

docs/docs/elide/performance.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 9
title: Performance
---

[//]: # (Copyright Paion Data)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

N+1 Problem
-----------

### Overview

The N+1 problem is a performance issue where an ORM issues a large number of database queries to fetch a parent/child
relationship. The ORM issues a single query to hydrate the parent and then _N_ queries to hydrate the children.

Most ORMs solve this problem by providing a number of different fetching strategies that are enabled when a proxy object
or collection is hydrated. These strategies fall into one of two categories:

1. A join is used to fetch both the parent and the children in a single query. The ORM populates its session cache with
   all entities fetched in the join. Joining works well for fetching singular relationships. It is important to note
   that a singular join that fetches an entire subgraph (spanning multiple relationships) is impractical and would break
   row based pagination (offset & limit). Furthermore, large joins put considerable memory stress on the ORM server
   because of the width of the records.
2. Instead of a single query per element of a collection, the number of queries is reduced by fetching multiple children
   in fewer queries.

These strategies may or not be available to the developer depending on how the ORM is leveraged. If the developer
interacts with a proxy object directly, all fetch strategies are available. However, the SQL queries generated from
proxy objects cannot be customized with additional filters, sorting, or pagination.

Alternatively, the developer can have complete control over the query by writing JPQL or Criteria queries. However, only
join fetching is available through these APIs.

### Solution

Because Elide has to work well under a wide variety of circumstances, it has adopted a hybrid solution for ORM based
data stores.

Whenever Elide traverses a to-one relationship, it returns the ORM proxy object directly. In most cases, these
relationships should already exist inside the session and result in no extra database queries.

Whenever Elide traverses a to-many relationship, Elide determines if it is loading a single collection (1 query) or a
collection of collections (N+1 queries). In the latter case, it returns the ORM proxy directly and performs all
filtering, sorting, and pagination in memory. Otherwise, it constructs a custom JPQL query that will fetch the
collection - joining with all the client requested to-one relationships to prefetch them.

In general, it is recommended to configure the ORM with batch fetching so the ORM will efficiently hydrate proxy
collections (batch fetching turns N queries into (N / batch size) queries).

Security Checks
---------------

Elide provides different flavors of security checks for performance reasons. In general, it is expensive to execute
servers side functions for every entity row hydrated from the database. Because Elide is handling the results of each
query in a single thread, the CPU cost of these checks can add extra latency to our queries.

To work around this, Elide provides two different kinds of security checks:

1. *User Checks* - User checks are evaluated once per request rather than per entity row.
2. *Filter Expression Checks* - Filter Expression Checks generate filter expressions that are pushed to the persistence
   layer and executed in the database.

For data reads from the database, it is recommended to use User Checks and Filter Expression Checks wherever possible.

ORM-isms
--------

Beware to-one relationships where the entity doesn't own the relationship (`mappedBy` is specified) _and_ `optional` is
set to true. The ORM must **ALWAYS** fetch these relationships when hydrating a proxy (leading to N+1 queries depending
on how the ORM is configured).  The ORM has no way of knowing if the relationship is null or non-null without issuing
another database query.

Database-isms
-------------

It is highly recommended to collocate Elide servers and the database in the same data center or region to reduce the
latency of database queries from Elide.

It is also recommended to segregate Elide read only transactions (data fetches) to run against a read-only replica of
the database for optimal read performance.

Text Search
-----------

By default, text search (INFIX operator) is accomplished in Elide through a JPQL query similar to:

```sql
SELECT id, field1, field2, ... FROM table WHERE field1 like CONCAT('%', searchTerm, '%')
```

For case insensitive searches, Elide will add a lower case function to both the search field and the search value.

There are a number of limitations to this approach:

1. If the database is using a b-tree index to index the search column, a preceding wildcard ('%') will disable the use
   of the index. The query will result in a full table scan.
2. Databases have limited support for functional indices. Use of lower or upper case functions may also disable the use
   of an index.

Elide provides two capabilities to work around these issues for large tables that require text search:

1. Elide supports the [ability to override the JPQL fragment](#jpql-fragment-override) that is generated for any
   operator on any field in any entity model. This makes it possible to disable the use of lower/upper case functions on
   a database column if the database column is already case insensitive. It is also possible to use custom SQL dialects
   to leverage full text index support (where available).
2. Elide supports a
   [Text Search Data Store](https://github.com/yahoo/elide/tree/master/elide-datastore/elide-datastore-search) that can
   wrap another ORM data store. Whenever possible, the text search data store can delegate queries to a local Lucene
   index or a Elasticsearch cluster rather than the default data store.

### JPQL Fragment Override

To override the JPQL fragment Elide generates for a filter operator, we must define a JPQL Predicate Generator:

```java
@FunctionalInterface
public interface JPQLPredicateGenerator {

    /**
     * Generate a JPQL fragment for a particular filter operator.
     *
     * @param predicate The filter predicate
     * @param aliasGenerator Given a path, returns a JPQL alias for that path.
     *
     * @return A JPQL fragment.
     */
    String generate(FilterPredicate predicate, Function<Path, String> aliasGenerator);
}
```

And then register it with Elide for the filter operator we want to modify. This can either be done globally:

```java
FilterTranslator.registerJPQLGenerator(
        Operator.NOTNULL,
        (predicate, aliasGenerator) -> {
            return String.format("%s IS NOT NULL", aliasGenerator.apply(predicate.getPath()));
        }
);
```

Or the override can be registered for a specific model attribute:

```java
FilterTranslator.registerJPQLGenerator(
        Operator.NOTNULL,
        Book.class,
        "title",
        (predicate, aliasGenerator) -> {
            return String.format("%s IS NOT NULL", aliasGenerator.apply(predicate.getPath()));
        }
);
```

Bespoke Field Sets
------------------

By default JSON-API fetches every relationship in an entity unless a client restricts what it asks for through sparse
fields. These relationship fetches result in extra database queries. It is recommended to either use GraphQL or educate
clients to use sparse fields in JSON-API whenever possible.

AggregationDataStore Cache
--------------------------

AggregationDataStore supports caching QueryEngine results. By default, a simple in-memory Caffeine-based cache is
configured, with a size limit of 1024 entries, but we can provide our own implementation.

For the cache to apply to a query, there are two requirements:

1. The `AggregationDataStore` must be supplied with a cache implementation.
2. The query being executed doesn't have `bypassingCache` set.

### Query Versions

The `AggregationDataStore` can prepend a table/data version to each cache entry key. This will prevent the cache from
returning stale data. Elide supports the `VersionQuery` annotation which specifies a SQL query to run that returns the
version for a particular table:

```java
@Include
@FromTable(name = "stats")
@VersionQuery(sql = "SELECT COUNT(*) FROM stats")
public class Stats {
    // fields
}
```

Returning a row count should work for tables that are insert-only. In most cases, a more sophisticated query will be
needed, such as one that returns a table modification timestamp.
