docs/docs/elide/clientapis/subscriptions.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
title: GraphQL Subscriptions
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Decorate an Elide Model
-----------------------

A subscription can be made from any Elide model simply by annotating it with `Subscription`:

```java
@Subscription
@Include(name = "group")
public class ArtifactGroup {

    @Id
    public String name;

    @SubscriptionField
    public String commonName;

    @SubscriptionField
    public String description;

    @SubscriptionField
    @OneToMany(mappedBy = "group")
    public List<ArtifactProduct> products;
}
```

The subscription annotation takes zero or more _operations_ which correspond to different topics.

```java
@Include
@Subscription(operation = { CREATE, UPDATE, DELETE });
public class Book {

    ...
}
```

Whenever a model is manipulated (created, deleted, or updated), elide will post a JSON serialized model to a JMS topic
for that operation. Only the fields decorated with `@SubscriptionField` will be serialized (and hence available to be
consumed in the subscription). It is also possible to define [custom operations](#custom-subscriptions) that are
triggered by our service business logic.

Running Queries
---------------

Elide subscriptions are implemented using websockets. Websockets require a protocol to send and receive messages. Elide
supports the [graphql-ws](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws) protocol.  This protocol works both with the
[Apollo GraphQL](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/subscriptions/) client as well as
[Graphiql](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql).

Elide's subscription API is similar to its API for queries and mutations, but there are some notable differences:

1. Each Elide model annotated with `Subscription` is a root field in the GraphQL schema.
2. Each root model supports a topic (ADDED, DELETED, UPDATED) variable and an optional [filter variable](#filtering).
3. Responses are not wrapped in 'edges' and 'node' because there is no pagination.
4. The API is read only.

### Simple Query

Query for newly added 'groups' returning their name and description:

```graphql
subscription { group(topic : ADDED) { name description } }
```

The response will look like:

```json
{
    "data": {
        "group": {
            "name": "new group",
            "description": "foo"
        }
    }
}
```

If there are errors, they will get reported in an errors field:

```json
{
    "data":{
        "group":{
            "name":"new group",
            "commonName":"",
            "nope":null
        }
    },
    "errors":[
        {
            "message":"Exception while fetching data (/group/nope) : ReadPermission Denied",
            "locations":[
                {
                    "line":2,
                    "column":53
                }
            ],
            "path":[
                "group",
                "nope"
            ],
            "extensions":{
                "classification":"DataFetchingException"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

### Filtering

All Elide subscriptions support RSQL filtering that is identical to
[filtering for queries and mutations](graphql#filtering). The following query filters artifact group creation events by
the name 'com.yahoo.elide':

```graphql
subscription { group(topic : ADDED, filter: "name='com.yahoo.elide'") { name description } }
```

Security
--------

Elide honors [ReadPermission annotations](security#read) for all subscription fields in the model. Subscriptions are
automatically filtered by any [FilterExpressionChecks](security#filter-expression-checks). Client requests to
unauthorized fields will result in errors returned in the subscription response payload.

See the section on [Authentication](#authentication) for details on how to build an Elide user principal.

Configuration
-------------

### JMS Message Broker

Elide leverages JMS to post and consume subscription messages.

### Global Settings

Elide subscriptions support the following, global configuration settings:

1. **enabled** - Turn on/off the subscription websocket.
2. **path** - The HTTP root path of the subscription websocket.
3. **idleTimeout** - How long in milliseconds the websocket can remain idle before the server closes it.
4. **maxMessageSize** - Maximum size in bytes of any message sent to the websocket (or it will be closed in error).
5. **maxSubscriptions** - The maximum number of concurrent subscriptions per websocket.
6. **connectionTimeout** - The time in milliseconds for the client to initiate a connection handshake before the server
   closes the socket.

Authentication
--------------

There is no well-defined standard for how user credentials are passed via websockets. Instead, Elide allows developers
to provide a function that maps a
[JSR-356 Session](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/websocket/2.0/apidocs/jakarta/websocket/session) to and Elide
[User object](security#user). The session contains the HTTP request headers, path parameter, query parameters, and
websocket parameters that can be leveraged to construct a user principal.

## JMS Message Settings

It is possible to override some of the default settings for messages published to JMS topics

Custom Subscriptions
--------------------

While Elide makes it easy to subscribe to model manipulations (create, update, and delete), it is also possible to add a
subscription topic for another event tied to our business logic. A custom subscription is simply an Elide model
annotated with the `@Subscription` annotation that explicitly sets the list of operations to empty:

```java
@Include
@Subscription(operations = {}) //This is a custom subscription
public class Chat {

    @Id
    long id;

    @SubscriptionField
    String message;
}
```

To publish to our subscription, we can create a lifecycle hook on another model that posts `Chat` messages.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="ChatBot.java" label="ChatBot.java" default>
    ```java
    @Include
    @LifeCycleHookBinding(
            hook = ChatBotCreateHook.class,
            operation = LifeCycleHookBinding.Operation.CREATE,
            phase = LifeCycleHookBinding.TransactionPhase.POSTCOMMIT
    )
    public class ChatBot {

        @Id
        long id;

        String name;
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ChatBotCreateHook.java" label="ChatBotCreateHook.java">
    ```java
    public class ChatBotCreateHook implements LifeCycleHook<ChatBot> {

        @Inject
        ConnectionFactory connectionFactory;

        @Override
        public void execute(
                LifeCycleHookBinding.Operation operation,
                LifeCycleHookBinding.TransactionPhase phase,
                ChatBot bot,
                RequestScope requestScope,
                Optional<ChangeSpec> changes
        ) {
            NotifyTopicLifeCycleHook<Chat> publisher = new NotifyTopicLifeCycleHook<>(
                    connectionFactory,
                    new ObjectMapper(),
                    JMSContext::createProducer
            );

            publisher.publish(new Chat(1, "Hello!"), CHAT);
            publisher.publish(new Chat(2, "How is your day?"), CHAT);
            publisher.publish(new Chat(3, "My name is " + bot.getName()), CHAT);
        }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Recommendations
---------------

It is highly recommended that subscriptions run as a separate service. Because websockets are long lived and stateful,
they impose different resource constraints and performance characteristics from queries and mutations.

Running websockets as a standalone service is as simple as disabling JSON-API and GraphQL HTTP endpoints:

Commit message:

Centralize AMI test into hashicorp-aws & Enhance product page (#74)
* Enhance product page

* Add Algolia search

* Expose via official astraio.io URL

* Update theme main color

* Enhance light/dark theme experience

* Centralize AMI test into hashicorp-aws

* Add copyright headers

* Self-review

docs/docs/elide/clientapis/subscriptions.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
title: GraphQL Subscriptions
---

[//]: # (Copyright Paion Data)

[//]: # (Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 &#40;the "License"&#41;;)
[//]: # (you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.)
[//]: # (You may obtain a copy of the License at)

[//]: # (    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

[//]: # (Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software)
[//]: # (distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,)
[//]: # (WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.)
[//]: # (See the License for the specific language governing permissions and)
[//]: # (limitations under the License.)

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Decorate an Elide Model
-----------------------

A subscription can be made from any Elide model simply by annotating it with `Subscription`:

```java
@Subscription
@Include(name = "group")
public class ArtifactGroup {

    @Id
    public String name;

    @SubscriptionField
    public String commonName;

    @SubscriptionField
    public String description;

    @SubscriptionField
    @OneToMany(mappedBy = "group")
    public List<ArtifactProduct> products;
}
```

The subscription annotation takes zero or more _operations_ which correspond to different topics.

```java
@Include
@Subscription(operation = { CREATE, UPDATE, DELETE });
public class Book {

    ...
}
```

Whenever a model is manipulated (created, deleted, or updated), elide will post a JSON serialized model to a JMS topic
for that operation. Only the fields decorated with `@SubscriptionField` will be serialized (and hence available to be
consumed in the subscription). It is also possible to define [custom operations](#custom-subscriptions) that are
triggered by our service business logic.

Running Queries
---------------

Elide subscriptions are implemented using websockets. Websockets require a protocol to send and receive messages. Elide
supports the [graphql-ws](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws) protocol.  This protocol works both with the
[Apollo GraphQL](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/subscriptions/) client as well as
[Graphiql](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql).

Elide's subscription API is similar to its API for queries and mutations, but there are some notable differences:

1. Each Elide model annotated with `Subscription` is a root field in the GraphQL schema.
2. Each root model supports a topic (ADDED, DELETED, UPDATED) variable and an optional [filter variable](#filtering).
3. Responses are not wrapped in 'edges' and 'node' because there is no pagination.
4. The API is read only.

### Simple Query

Query for newly added 'groups' returning their name and description:

```graphql
subscription { group(topic : ADDED) { name description } }
```

The response will look like:

```json
{
    "data": {
        "group": {
            "name": "new group",
            "description": "foo"
        }
    }
}
```

If there are errors, they will get reported in an errors field:

```json
{
    "data":{
        "group":{
            "name":"new group",
            "commonName":"",
            "nope":null
        }
    },
    "errors":[
        {
            "message":"Exception while fetching data (/group/nope) : ReadPermission Denied",
            "locations":[
                {
                    "line":2,
                    "column":53
                }
            ],
            "path":[
                "group",
                "nope"
            ],
            "extensions":{
                "classification":"DataFetchingException"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

### Filtering

All Elide subscriptions support RSQL filtering that is identical to
[filtering for queries and mutations](graphql#filtering). The following query filters artifact group creation events by
the name 'com.yahoo.elide':

```graphql
subscription { group(topic : ADDED, filter: "name='com.yahoo.elide'") { name description } }
```

Security
--------

Elide honors [ReadPermission annotations](security#read) for all subscription fields in the model. Subscriptions are
automatically filtered by any [FilterExpressionChecks](security#filter-expression-checks). Client requests to
unauthorized fields will result in errors returned in the subscription response payload.

See the section on [Authentication](#authentication) for details on how to build an Elide user principal.

Configuration
-------------

### JMS Message Broker

Elide leverages JMS to post and consume subscription messages.

### Global Settings

Elide subscriptions support the following, global configuration settings:

1. **enabled** - Turn on/off the subscription websocket.
2. **path** - The HTTP root path of the subscription websocket.
3. **idleTimeout** - How long in milliseconds the websocket can remain idle before the server closes it.
4. **maxMessageSize** - Maximum size in bytes of any message sent to the websocket (or it will be closed in error).
5. **maxSubscriptions** - The maximum number of concurrent subscriptions per websocket.
6. **connectionTimeout** - The time in milliseconds for the client to initiate a connection handshake before the server
   closes the socket.

Authentication
--------------

There is no well-defined standard for how user credentials are passed via websockets. Instead, Elide allows developers
to provide a function that maps a
[JSR-356 Session](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/websocket/2.0/apidocs/jakarta/websocket/session) to and Elide
[User object](security#user). The session contains the HTTP request headers, path parameter, query parameters, and
websocket parameters that can be leveraged to construct a user principal.

## JMS Message Settings

It is possible to override some of the default settings for messages published to JMS topics

Custom Subscriptions
--------------------

While Elide makes it easy to subscribe to model manipulations (create, update, and delete), it is also possible to add a
subscription topic for another event tied to our business logic. A custom subscription is simply an Elide model
annotated with the `@Subscription` annotation that explicitly sets the list of operations to empty:

```java
@Include
@Subscription(operations = {}) //This is a custom subscription
public class Chat {

    @Id
    long id;

    @SubscriptionField
    String message;
}
```

To publish to our subscription, we can create a lifecycle hook on another model that posts `Chat` messages.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="ChatBot.java" label="ChatBot.java" default>
    ```java
    @Include
    @LifeCycleHookBinding(
            hook = ChatBotCreateHook.class,
            operation = LifeCycleHookBinding.Operation.CREATE,
            phase = LifeCycleHookBinding.TransactionPhase.POSTCOMMIT
    )
    public class ChatBot {

        @Id
        long id;

        String name;
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ChatBotCreateHook.java" label="ChatBotCreateHook.java">
    ```java
    public class ChatBotCreateHook implements LifeCycleHook<ChatBot> {

        @Inject
        ConnectionFactory connectionFactory;

        @Override
        public void execute(
                LifeCycleHookBinding.Operation operation,
                LifeCycleHookBinding.TransactionPhase phase,
                ChatBot bot,
                RequestScope requestScope,
                Optional<ChangeSpec> changes
        ) {
            NotifyTopicLifeCycleHook<Chat> publisher = new NotifyTopicLifeCycleHook<>(
                    connectionFactory,
                    new ObjectMapper(),
                    JMSContext::createProducer
            );

            publisher.publish(new Chat(1, "Hello!"), CHAT);
            publisher.publish(new Chat(2, "How is your day?"), CHAT);
            publisher.publish(new Chat(3, "My name is " + bot.getName()), CHAT);
        }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Recommendations
---------------

It is highly recommended that subscriptions run as a separate service. Because websockets are long lived and stateful,
they impose different resource constraints and performance characteristics from queries and mutations.

Running websockets as a standalone service is as simple as disabling JSON-API and GraphQL HTTP endpoints:
